.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH VCHATTR 1 "vmailmgr 0.96.8" "19/Apr/2000" "VMailMgr Tools Documentation"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
vchattr \- change a virtual user attribute
.SH "SYNOPSYS"
\fBvchattr\fR
\fB[\-c | --msgcount | \-e | --expiry | \-E | --enabled | \-q | --softquota | \-Q | --hardquota | \-z | --msgsize]\fR
\fB[--quiet]\fR
\fBvalue\fR \fBusername\fR [\fBusername\fR ...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This program changes the value of one attribute on a set of virtual
users.  It cannot be used to change the user's password or forwarding
addresses -- use \fBvpasswd\fR and \fBvchforwards\fR to accomplish those
tasks.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "-c count" 4
.Ip "--msgcount count" 4
Limit the number of messages in this user's mailbox to count.
.Ip "-e seconds" 4
.Ip "--expiry seconds" 4
Set the account to expire at the given time, expressed in the number
of seconds since the \s-1UNIX\s0 epoch (midnight \s-1GMT\s0 Jan 1, 1970).
.Ip "-E 0|1" 4
.Ip "--enabled 0|1" 4
Enable (\f(CW1\fR) or disable (\f(CW0\fR) delivery to the virtual user's mailbox
directory.  This does not delete the mailbox or any of the messages
contained in or, nor prevent the user from logging in.
.Ip "-q kbytes" 4
.Ip "--softquota kbytes" 4
Set the soft quota value -- if the user's mailbox is this large or
larger (but not larger than the hard quota), incoming messages will be
both bounced and received.
As well, an error message will be added to the user's mailbox.
.Ip "-p \*(N"string\*(T"" 4
.Ip "--personal \*(N"string\*(T"" 4
Set the user's personal information string.
.Ip "-Q kbytes" 4
.Ip "--hardquota kbytes" 4
Set the hard quota value -- if the user's mailbox is this large or
larger, no more messages will be delivered to it.
.Ip "-z kbytes" 4
.Ip "--msgsize kbytes" 4
Set the largest message this user is allowed to receive.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
0 if the given attribute was successfully changed for all users,
non-zero otherwise.
If any of the steps fail, a diagnostic message is printed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIvadduser\fR\|(1)
.SH "NOTES"
This program expects the environment variable \f(CWHOME\fR to be set, and
executes a change directory to the contents of it before starting.  It
is also required that you change user to the domain owner before using
these utilities.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Bruce Guenter <\fIbruceg@em.ca\fR>.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "VCHATTR 1"
.IX Name "vchattr - change a virtual user attribute"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSYS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "-c count"

.IX Item "--msgcount count"

.IX Item "-e seconds"

.IX Item "--expiry seconds"

.IX Item "-E 0|1"

.IX Item "--enabled 0|1"

.IX Item "-q kbytes"

.IX Item "--softquota kbytes"

.IX Item "-p \*(N"string\*(T""

.IX Item "--personal \*(N"string\*(T""

.IX Item "-Q kbytes"

.IX Item "--hardquota kbytes"

.IX Item "-z kbytes"

.IX Item "--msgsize kbytes"

.IX Header "RETURN VALUE"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "NOTES"

.IX Header "AUTHOR"

